Initial-commit (#1)
minvws/hapi-fhir-jpaserver-starter: README.md

# Documentation HAPI FHIR JPA Server

## Introduction

> The purpose of this HAPI FHIR JPA Server is to provide a Proof of Concept where it functions like a metadata register. [HAPI FHIR](https://hapifhir.io/) is a complete implementation of the [HL7 FHIR](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/) standard for healthcare interoperability in Java. It is an open source software licensed under the business-friendly [Apache Software License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Reviewer: Could you also state that this PoC is part of the GFModules project and explain the gfmodules project like in the coordination.

> Disclaimer
The GFModules project is currently under development. The information in this repository is subject to change. The information in this repository describes the current state of the various applications.

>Introduction
The GFModules project is a collection of applications that have the purpose to improve the data exchange between healthcare providers. This project is the technical implementation of the various components of the 'Generieke Functies, lokalisatie en addressering' project of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport of the Dutch goverment.

### Basic FHIR model Hints
**[Extensions:](https://hapifhir.io/hapi-fhir/docs/model/profiles_and_extensions.html)** are a [FHIR standarized](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/extensibility.html) way of adding addional information to a resource. Extensions do not necessarily point to other resources but only act as an extra information holder.
```
{
  "extension": [
    {
      "url": "http://someserver/some-path",
      "valueCode": "I"
    }
  ],
  "text": "Chief Red Cloud"
}
```
**[Resource references](https://hapifhir.io/hapi-fhir/docs/model/working_with_resources.html)** are a [FHIR standard](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/references.html) to reference to a different resource. I.e. an ImagingStudy can have a resource reference to a Practioner, an Organization, Patient. This way the resources are linked with each other.
```
 "subject": {
   "reference" : "http://someserver/some-path",
   "type" : "Patient"
 }
```

## JPA Server setup as Metadata register
This set-up is only created for Linux, however, Windows would work as well.
To get started:

> 1. Clone or fork the JPA server starter GitHub repository: https://github.com/thomas-samoht/hapi-fhir-jpaserver-starter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone or fork the JPA server starter GitHub repository: https://github.com/minvws/hapi-fhir-jpaserver-starter
```

   -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data @fhir_examples/bundle.json
```

4. Test whether the HAPI has successfully gotten the data:

```curl 
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/fhir/Patient/3
```

5. It should return something like:
```json
{
   "resourceType": "Patient",
   "id": "3",
   "meta": {
      "versionId": "1",
      "lastUpdated": "2024-09-06T09:41:59.937+02:00",
      "source": "#GdSt18FL7qntkzYu"
   },
   "identifier": [ {
      "system": "http://hospital.org/patients",
      "value": "12345"
   } ],
   "name": [ {
      "use": "official",
      "family": "Doe",
      "given": [ "John" ]
   } ],
   "gender": "male",
   "birthDate": "1980-01-01"
}
```

Before you request the timeline service ensure your endpoint is registered in the [address](https://github.com/minvws/nl-irealisatie-zmodules-addressing-register) and
the [pseudonym-exchange-service](https://github.com/minvws/nl-irealisatie-zmodules-pseudonym-service) knows your provider-id.
To find your provider-id, look in the [settings file](src/main/resources/application.yaml).

In the address DB you should have a entry that sets the address endpoint to: http://host.docker.internal:8080/fhir

> And to set up the provider in the pseudonym service follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and to set up the provider in the pseudonym service with the following steps:
```

1. do the following curl request in the terminal
```curl
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8504/register' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "provider_id": "MY_HAPI",
  "bsn_hash": "2b826afa1c71f571a007dad61ce9fb9b63a24a328aa4ac009484a198ff565c51"
}'
```
2. Copy generated pseudonym
3. Open database editor to the `hapi` database
4. Go to table `hfj_res_ver`

> 5. Edit the extension in the `patient` resource entry

Reviewer 2: can you show an example here please

6. Replace the patient's extensions UUID with the copied pseudonym

Finally test whether this is all setup correctly:
1. Do curl request:
```curl

> curl 'http://localhost:8080/fhir/ImagingStudy/_search?pseudonym=677b33c7-30e0-4fe1-a740-87fd73c4dfaf'

Reviewer 2: maybe we should mention that the following psuedonym is already setup as an example in the other service
